Excerpts from interview with rapper Kendrick Lamar, who discusses his critically acclaimed album To Pimp a Butterfly and his recent Grammy nominations.
New York Times critics Manohla Dargis, A O Scott and Stephen Holden list their own picks for Oscar-worthy films and performances from 2015.
Jon Caramanica profiles blogger Stephen Carbone, who has been posting spoilers about reality show The Bachelor for past four years on his website RealitySteve.com; reflects that, as show begins 20th season on ABC, Carbone continues to get a lot of information from his sources. 
Adam McKay, director and co-writer of caper movie The Big Short, discusses how he used humor to explain complicated aspects of 2008 housing and banking crisis. 
Zachary Woolfe offers highlights from season 2 of Amazon original series Mozart in the Jungle, starring Gael Garcia Bernal; show features behind-the-scenes look at semi-fictional New York symphony orchestra. 
Jon Pareles reviews latest albums by songwriter Miya Folick, singer Ruby Amanfu, electronic music producer Kode9, British singer Shirley Collins and xylophonist SK Kakraba. 
Manhattan Theater Club production of Richard Greenberg play Our Mother's Brief Affair, set to open at Samuel J Friedman Theater, brings together theater stalwarts Greenberg, actress Linda Lavin and director Lynne Meadow.
Playwright Dominique Morisseau pays homage to her hometown Detroit in play Skeleton Crew, final work in her prizewinning Detroit trilogy; drama, which is being staged by Atlantic Theater Company, is set in 2008 and focuses on workers at city's last remaining auto plant.
Choreographer Annie B Parson's dance concert Short Form, which will premiere at the Kitchen, celebrates 25th anniversary of her company Big Dance Theater; program of works will feature performances by her husband Paul Lazar and onstage birthday party during intermission. 
Wesley Morris discusses four worthy movies from 2015 that are likely to be ignored during Oscar season; list includes Creed, Results, Woman in Gold and Danny Collins.
Actress Brie Larson, who portrayed woman imprisoned by sexual predator in movie Room, is in midst of monthslong press campaign during movie awards season; has already received Golden Globe nomination and could receive leading actress Oscar. 
Manohla Dargis and A O Scott discuss field of potential Oscar nominees; reflect that blockbusters represented many of 2015's best movies.
Charles Mee play The Glory of the World, opening at Brooklyn Academy of Music, explores life of 20th-century American Catholic thinker Thomas Merton; production is directed by Les Waters and financed by Roy Cockrum, former Episcopal monk who won $259 million in 2014 lottery. 
Snapshot interview with playwright Lauren Gunderson, who discusses her breakthrough play I and You, which is making its New York debut at 59E59 Theaters. 
Clove Galilee directs Mabou Mines and Trick Saddle production of play Imagining the Imaginary Invalid, inspired by Moliere comedy The Imaginary Invalid, at La MaMa; show features homage to French playwright and actress Ruth Maleczech, Galilee's mother, who helped conceive of and starred in original workshop production before dying of cancer in 2013.
Jon Pareles reviews latest albums by producer-singer Zhu, country singer Chris Young and rapper Wiki; also reviews books Definition of Down: My Life With Ice-T & the Birth of Hip Hop by Darlene Ortiz and memoir My Opinion by rapper Mac Mall. 
Profile of pop's in-demand songwriting team, Julia Michaels and Justin Tranter, who have worked with both newcomers and established musical acts. 
Craig Gillespie film The Finest Hours chronicles real-life story of four Coast Guard crewmen who rescued stranded sailors from oil tanker that broke apart during terrible storm off coast of Cape Cod in 1952.
Acclaimed British actress Maggie Smith discusses her latest role, playing an eccentric homeless woman in Nicholas Hytner movie The Lady in the Van; film was inspired by personal experience of Smith's longtime friend, playwright Alan Bennett. 
Frick Collection's yearlong collaboration with Ghetto Film School, in which high school-age filmmakers from South Bronx access museum collection to help make their stories, is being closely observed in philanthropy and museum worlds; hope is that strategy is successful and can be used to help improve audience and staff diversity at cultural institutions.
Excerpts from conversation with producers and stars of FX mini-series The People vs OJ Simpson: American Crime Story, who discuss series and issues it raises.
Magician Ricky Jay's book Matthias Buchinger: The Greatest German Living explores his fascination with the 18th-century German calligrapher, who was born without hands or feet and grew to only 29 inches tall; Jay has also lent his private collection of Buchinger memorabilia and drawings to Metropolitan Museum of Art for upcoming exhibit.
Tony-nominated actor Steven Boyer reflects upon what he is doing with his life now that Broadway run of play Hand to God, in which he played starring role, has ended. 
Pianists with ballet companies offer often unnoticed but vital contribution to dance performances. 
Excerpts from conversation with Caroline Polachek and Patrick Wimberly, members of Brooklyn electronic pop duo Chairlift, who discuss their latest album Moth. 
Profile of film and television producer Will Packer, whose latest production is Ride Along 2, starring Kevin Hart. 
Artist Louise Bourgeois's West 20th Street townhouse, which has been turned into exhibition gallery, library and archive since her death in 2010, is being maintained in same state of bohemian dilapidation as it was when its owner was alive.  
Trisha Brown Dance Company, in effort to reinvent itself after Trisha Brown stepped down, is remounting choreographer's dance pieces in site-specific locations around the world, including upcoming appearance at Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Actors David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson prepare to reprise their iconic roles as Fox Mulder and Dana Scully in Fox network's much-anticipated six-episode revival of popular 1990s series The X-Files. 
Snapshot interview with Kelly Zutrau, songwriter and singer for band Wet, who discusses band's debut album Don't You and group's plans for touring.
Dan O'Brien play The Body of an American, opening in February at Cherry Lane Theater, is inspired by work of Canadian war reporter and photographer Paul Watson.
Thomas Kail, director of hit Broadway musical Hamilton, is also directing Fox's live TV musical Grease; hopes to avoid pitfalls other television productions of live theater have run into by incorporating a live audience and using sets both inside and outside. 
Fans are worried that American remake of Pascal Laugier 2008 French-language horror film Martyrs, considered one of most disturbing movies ever made, will be watered down or sanitized.
Filmmaker and journalist Laura Poitras is planning exhibit Astro Noise, which will feature descrambled images of government surveillance apparatuses, at Whitney Museum of American Art.
Goodman Theater adapts Chilean writer Roberto Bolano's famously enigmatic 900-page novel 2666 into five-hour-long play of same name.
Profile of Elton John, who is preparing for his 33rd studio album Wonderful Crazy Night and accompanying tour; in 2017, he will celebrate 50th anniversary of his professional partnership with songwriter and lyricist Bernie Taubin.
Snapshot interview with actress Caity Lotz, who is reprising her comic-book role of Sara Lance in CW series DC's Legends of Tomorrow.
Director Todd Haynes discusses image books, compendiums taken from photographs, film stills, paintings and magazines, among other sources, he used to help create visual feel of period film Carol. 
Excerpts from conversation with playwright and actor Sam Shepard, who has returned to New York for New Group's revival of his 1978 play Buried Child.
ABC mini-series Madoff, starring Richard Dreyfuss and Blythe Danner, is one of several coming shows and movies exploring life of reviled criminal mastermind.
Rupert Holmes, creator of nearly-forgotten AMC comedy-drama series Remember WENN, reminisces about show 20 years after its premiere; series, which was set in World War II-era radio station, ran for four seasons before being cancelled.
Chilean director Pablo Larrain's latest film The Club offers very personal look into lives of priests who have been removed from their posts for variety of sins or even crimes.
Profile of actor Josh Brolin, who has shed bad-boy reputation in recent years, taking on more roles in critically acclaimed films; his latest projects include Ethan and Joel Coen movie Hail, Caesar! and forthcoming film The Legacy of a Whitetail Deer Hunter.
Swiss artists Peter Fischli and David Weiss, who have used humor to explore human condition throughout their 30-year-plus partnership, are subject of Guggenheim Museum retrospective How to Work Better.
Many theater actresses are forging close sister-like bonds offstage as number of tightly-knit sister relationships portrayed on New York stages grows. 
Camille A Brown faces many challenges as choreographer of City Center Encores! revival of little-seen 1940 musical Cabin in the Sky.
Best-selling but controversial comic-book artist Rob Liefeld may reach even wider audience with movie adaptation of his 1991 story Deadpool, starring Ryan Reynolds as mutant mercenary.
J Hoberman reviews video releases of Hou Hsiao-Hsien film The Assassin, Asif Kapadia documentary film Amy and Sean Baker film Tangerine. 
Snapshot interview with comedian Deon Cole, who discusses his roles on television comedy shows black-ish and Angie Tribeca.
Animated short film Sanjay's Super Team, which has been nominated for best animated short Oscar, is one of more diverse nominees in this year's Academy Awards race; directed by Indian-American Sanjay Patel, it explores clash between immigrant father and his more assimilated son.
Snapshot interview with New York City Ballet soloist Taylor Stanley, who stars in Justin Peck's latest piece The Most Incredible Thing.
Photographer Frederic Brenner's images of Israel and West Bank are featured in group exhibit This Place at Brooklyn Museum.
Boston Modern Orchestra Project and its founder and conductor Gil Rose celebrate 20 years of promoting new or neglected music through performances and recordings produced by in-house record label; recommendations for five top albums recorded by group noted. 
Lucia Aniello and Paul W Downs, couple who writes for Comedy Central series Broad City, describe how they come up with much of show's slapstick feminist humor.
Former teen heartthrob Ralph Macchio channels his past in upcoming Abingdon Theater Company production of Charles Messina coming-of-age play A Room of My Own.
Stephen Hopkins movie Race, starring Stephan James, chronicles how sprinter Jesse Owens won four gold medals at 1936 Berlin Olympics.
Jon Caramanica notes Noah Shebib, musical partner of hip-hop artist Drake, says their latest album Views From the 6 is going to be exactly what fans expect--lots of introspection combined with new flows and some boundary pushing. 
Ben Ratliff notes that musician Anthony Braxton reveals his zeal for jazz and classical composition with upcoming releases of three different boxed sets of new music.  
Jon Pareles observes that spring music festivals Moogfest in Durham, NC, Big Ears in Knoxville, Tenn, and Manana in Cuba offer exciting lineup of established acts and promising newcomers. 
Profile of British documentary photographer Paul Graham, whose work will be featuring in retrospective at Pier 24 in San Francisco. 
Filmmaker Robert Eggers' great attention to detail in movie The Witch: A New England Folktale brings audience back to 17th century and helps bring story alive; roundup of other witch-themed productions noted. 
Brandon K Thorp examines performances of black artists who received Oscar nomination for best actress or actor.
Minnesota Orchestra, after damaging 16-month lockout that ended in January 2014, is rebounding under guidance of music director Osmo Vanska and president and chief executive Kevin Smith; much work remains to be done, however, to ensure orchestra's longevity.
Big Ten New Play Initiative, sponsored by colleges in Big Ten athletic conference, aims to foster women in theater by commissioning several plays by women that feature multiple female roles.
Los Angeles artist John Baldessari has turned away from pop-cultural touchstones that typified his early work, paying tribute to old and modern masters by incorporating details of their works into his own.
Interview with Laura Benanti, Jane Krakowski, Gavin Creel and  Zachary Levi, leads in Roundabout Theater Company revival of musical She Loves Me, in which they discuss creative process and collaborative dynamic of production.
Stephen Petronio Company performance of Trisha Brown dance Glacial Decoy is centerpiece of annual Joyce Theater residency and part of Petronio's Bloodlines project, which honors influential artists and preserves important works of modern and postmodern dance.
Actor Jeff Daniels comments on role of Ray in David Harrower play Blackbird, which he first played in 2007 Off-Broadway production and is now reprising for Broadway revival; says disturbing nature of character requires high level of emotional commitment.
Reclusive director Terrence Malick establishes himself as Hollywood insider by depicting machinations of film industry in movie Knight of Cups, starring Christan Bale as rootless screenwriter.
Retirement of Hayao Miyazaki and Isao Takahata, founders of revered Japanese animation house Studio Ghibli, raises question of who will fill void; several rising anime directors are potential contenders.
J Hoberman revisits Leni Riefenstahl film Triumph of the Will and ambiguity regarding its place as documentary, art or Nazi propaganda in light of recent reissue by Synapse Films.
Highlights from Bob Dylan archive listed.
Stephen Karam play The Humans is latest thought-provoking theatrical work depicting emotional hardships experienced by America's economically-challenged middle class. 
Pop star Gwen Stefani describes how writing songs for her latest album This is What the Truth Feels Like helped her work through breakup of her 13-year marriage to Gavin Rossdale.
Several current filmmakers are using vague themes of spirituality, faith and belief to anchor movies and keep audiences guessing; Jeff Nichols's Midnight Special and Karyn Kusama's The Invitation are latest examples of trend.
Edited excerpts from conversation with director Richard Linklater, whose latest film Everybody Wants Some!! will open South by Southwest film festival in his hometown, Austin, Tex.
Actor David Tennant will play lead in Royal Shakespeare Co production of Richard II, set to open at Brooklyn Academy of Music; is best known for starring roles in several popular science fiction, mystery and superhero television series, but has deep theatrical roots.
Jon Caramanica recalls Atlanta rapper Bankroll Fresh and country singer Joey Feek, both of whom died on March 4; notes significant contributions they each made to their genres outside mainstream.
Mireille Enos, actress who played plain-faced, troubled cop on television show The Killing, says more glamorous, upbeat character on ABC series The Catch better reflects her true personality.
Songwriter Edie Brickell and multitalented persona Steve Martin express both optimism and trepidation over upcoming opening of their musical Bright Star at Cort Theater; show's originality and earnest tone make it outlier in Broadway field dominated by revivals and familiar material.
Former American Ballet Theater principal Angel Corella has been reinventing Pennsylvania Ballet since becoming artistic director in 2014; company will arrive at Joyce Theater in late March for run featuring works crafted for its dancers.
Actress Melissa Rauch plays foul-mouthed, sex-crazed ex-Olympic gymnast in dark comedy The Bronze; film, which Rauch co-wrote with her husband Winston Rauch, explores themes of badly-behaved women and wages of fame.
Director David McVicar, who is launching his fifth Metropolitan Opera production of season, has become important voice at opera as it seeks to find creative direction and financial footing; has unique and flexible style that lies outside battle over traditional versus modern stagings that has consumed company.
Snapshot interview with actress Keri Russell in which she discusses her role on FX television show The Americans.
Golden Globe winning actor Don Cheadle discusses portrayal of jazz trumpeter and composer Miles Davis in film Miles Ahead, which he directed and co-wrote.
Breakaway singer Zayn Malik, former member of pop group One Direction, flexes chops as R&B singer in solo debut album Mind of Mine yet is still struggling to break into highly competitive musical genre. 
Actor Benjamin Walker shares his technique for portraying psychotic character Patrick Bateman in upcoming Broadway musical American Psycho. 
J Hoberman reviews reissue of Nagisa Oshima movie Death by Hanging on Blu-Ray by Criterion and release of Robert Wise movie I Want to Live! remastered on DVD; other video releases noted. 
Influential director Chantal Akerman, who passed away in October, will be celebrated in several New York City museums throughout April for her contributions to avant garde films; explored defining spaces of feminine life and employed distinctive style of camera work.  
Hulu introduces first hour-long drama series The Path, written by playwright Jessica Goldberg, who was inspired to create plot surrounding faith that fuels religious movements.
All-women's group art show appears to make comeback as more galleries, museums and other cultural entities host and schedule women-themed surveys; artists and curators say exhibitions are playing catch up after decades of marginalization while promoting fresh faces and cultivating new market. 
Snapshot interview with Ashton Kutcher, who discusses The Ranch, Netflix comedy he and actor Danny Masterson created and star in. 
Jesse Tyler Ferguson talks about acting in Broadway revival of one-man play Fully Committed, comedy about reservationist at prominent Manhattan restaurant; show will open for limited run at Lyceum Theater. 
French playwright Florian Zeller says his work The Father is tragic farce about senile dementia expressed through unraveling thoughts of the afflicted; Manhattan Theater Club production of play is scheduled to soon open at Samuel J Friedman Theater, with Frank Langella in pivotal role.
Actor Ben Platt discusses challenge of portraying sympathetic yet opportunistic title character in Off Broadway musical Dear Evan Hansen.  
Director Ilya Naishuller makes his first feature film Hardcore Henry without any star actor, preferring viewers to experience action from main character's perspective; says ambitious project, which was shot using point-of-view technique, required stuntmen specialists, GoPro action cameras and dozens of visual effects companies to create. 
Dave Erickson, showrunner of AMC series Fear the Walking Dead, announces several major changes for season two, including shift in plot focus to mysterious character and change in action from land to sea.
Steven Soderbergh, executive producer of Starz series The Girlfriend Experience, explains major differences between his new television drama and his 2009 film The Girlfriend Experience; both focus on prostitution but feature different characters and locations.
