Closer look at rare big losses by 10 best teams in NBA history suggests that Golden State Warriors' chances of historic season would dim considerably if their star point guard Stephen Curry remains on sideline.
Analysis; Jacksonville Jaguars quarterback Blake Bortles future looks bright, despite team's current 5-10 record; ranks second in passing touchdowns, just one behind New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, and sixth in passing yards.
Preview of Week 17 matchups in the NFL.
William C Rhoden Sports of The Times column on Clemson football coach Dabo Swinney, who has been accused of creating culture on his team that goes too far in promoting Christianity; asserts realistic head coaches, like Swinney, know most important part of their job is to win games, not save young souls.
NBA Roundup; Milwaukee Bucks defeat Indiana Pacers, 120-116; other basketball scores and news noted.
College Basketball Roundup; Villanova men's college basketball team defeats Xavier, 95-64; other men's and women's scores noted.
Boston Pride of National Women's Hockey League ties Les Canadiennes of Canadian Women's Hockey League, 1-1, in inaugural Outdoor Women's Classic at Gillette Stadium; Pride player Denna Laing is injured after losing her footing, raising concerns about ice conditions that were questioned earlier in day.
University of California quarterback Jared Goff will skip his senior year to enter 2016 NFL draft; other NFL news noted.
ESPN reports that viewership for College Football Playoff semifinal games played on New Year's Eve dropped drastically, compared to last season's games, which were played on New Year's Day.
Chicago Bulls defeat New York Knicks, 108-81.
Washington Wizards beat Orlando Magic, 103-91; other pro basketball scores noted.
NFL Roundup; Ohio State defeats Notre Dame, 44-28, in Fiesta Bowl; other bowl games noted.
Keeping Score column notes that New York Knicks continue to play their slow-paced game, despite run-and-gun style of Golden State Warriors and other fast-breaking NBA teams.
New York Giants coach Tom Coughlin is preparing for what may be his final game as Giants head coach--job he has held since 2004.
College Football Roundup; Texas Christian defeats Oregon, 47-41, in Alamo Bowl; other bowl games noted.
NHL Roundup; New Jersey Devils defeat Dallas Stars, 3-2, in overtime; other hockey scores noted.
United States defeats Czech Republic, 7-0, in quarterfinals of world junior hockey championship.
Denver Broncos defeat San Diego Chargers, 27-20, to win No 1 seed in AFC and seal first-round bye and home field advantage in playoffs.
NHL Roundup; New York Islanders defeat Dallas Stars, 6-5; other hockey scores noted.
New York Giants fail to win one last game for coach Tom Coughlin, who has not announced his retirement but could soon leave, while Philadelphia Eagles hold on to give interim coach Pat Shurmur his first win.
William C Rhoden Sports of The Times column holds New York Jets season-ending loss to Buffalo Bills revives debate over who should be starting quarterback next season; notes 11-year veteran Ryan Fitzpatrick threw three interceptions and looked confused throughout game.
Ford Center at the Star, new Dallas Cowboys headquarters in Frisco, Tex, will include training facility, practice fields, offices and indoor stadium that will be shared with eight local high schools; project, which also includes entertainment and retail district, is being built by Blue Star Land, development company owned by family of team's owner Jerry Jones.
Zinedine Zidane, midfielder for France in their World Cup win, is named head coach of Real Madrid to replace Rafael Benitez; has limited coaching experience.
New York Jets quarterback Ryan Fitzpatrick will likely stay with team in coming season despite 22-17 loss to Buffalo, which ended their hopes for postseason, and his pending free agency.
NFL's Cleveland Browns make move with few precedents, hiring New York Mets executive Paul Depodesta as chief strategy officer; former Harvard athlete, who was featured in Michael Lewis book Moneyball, hopes he can replicate his success with Mets front office that resulted in 2015 World Series appearance.
Tom Coughlin singles out quarterback Eli Manning for praise in his emotional final address as New York Giants coach; leaves his football future, including possible job in organization's front office, open to speculation.
Michael Powell Sports of The Times column questions credibility of Charles Sly, who recently recanted statements he made to undercover Al Jazeera journalist detailing alleged doping regimens of handful of high-profile professional athletes.
Tyler Kepner On Baseball column recounts series of events that almost brought outfielder Ken Griffey Jr to New York Mets in 2000, and indirectly led to team's signing of current third baseman David Wright.
Recent success of Denmark's junior hockey team reflects revamped approach from Danish Ice Hockey Union to development of country's young players.
Analysis of matchups, for both NFC and AFC, in first round of NFL playoffs.
New York Knicks beat Atlanta Hawks, 107-101.
David Waldstein On Baseball column holds that former MLB catcher Mike Piazza, who was recently elected into Baseball Hall of Fame, was just as sharp off field as on field; notes that Piazza yearned to be rock star, and would often spin records at radio studio after games.
Tyler Kepner On Baseball column recalls memorable home runs hit by Hall of Fame inductees Ken Griffey Jr and Mike Piazza, neither of whom has won World Series; describes back-to-back home runs by Griffey and his father Ken Griffey Sr while playing together for Seattle Mariners in 1990 and two-run homer hit by Piazza at Shea Stadium in first New York game after Sept 11 terrorist attacks.
Washington Capitals defeat New York Islanders, 4-1.
Patrick Reed takes lead at Hyundai Tournament of Champions golf tournament in Kapalua, Hawaii.
Preview of 2016 NFL wild-card playoff round.
NBA Roundup; Orlando Magic defeat Brooklyn Nets, 83-77; other basketball scores noted.
Boston Bruins beat New Jersey Devils, 4-1, for franchise's 3,000th win; other hockey news noted.
Andy Murray plans to withdraw from Australian Open tennis tournament if his wife Kim goes into labor, decision that many tennis players support.
Washington Redskins, led by quarterback Kirk Cousins, are preparing to host Green Bay Packers in wild-card game, first playoff appearance since 2013, when their rookie sensation Robert Griffin III suffered devastating knee injury; both franchise and Griffin have yet to recover.
New York Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony remains focal point of team's offense and is still Knicks' biggest star, but he is trusting his teammates more and getting them involved in plays.
NBA Roundup; Detroit Pistons defeat Brooklyn Nets, 103-89; other basketball scores noted.
Kansas City Chiefs defeat Houston Texans, 30-0, in wild-card playoff game.
Richard Sandomir TV Sports column notes that NFL Network will air full version of Super Bowl I, played in 1967, assembled from NFL Films footage.
Sample of questions 32 NFL owners are debating regarding teams' proposals to move to Los Angeles, highlighted. 
Soccer Roundup; Oxford United defeats Swansea City, 3-2, in third-round of F A Cup soccer tournament; other soccer matches and news noted.
Samantha Stosur is one of most successful Australian tennis players, yet her achievements are comparatively ignored; some blame sexism in Australia, while other says it is her humble personality.
New York Knicks defeat Minnesota Bucks, 100-88.
Harvey Araton On Pro Basketball column questions Brooklyn Nets owner Mikhail D Prokhorov leadership style after team fired Coach Lionel Hollins and reassigned General Manager Billy King; says there is fine line between interfering with team executives and remaining present and accountable for what ultimately occurs.
Juliet Macur Sports of the Times column sympathizes with Washington Redskins fans who were disappointed by their team failing to prevail over Green Bay Packers in wild-card round of NFL playoffs; notes home teams in all four games of wild-card round lost, first time that has happened since playoff system began in 1990.
Brooklyn Nets owner Mikhail D Prokhorov holds news conference in which he accepts full responsibility for team's sorry state, day after firing coach Lionel Hollins and demoting general manager Billy King.
NFL Roundup; New York Giants interview former Atlanta Falcons Coach Mike Smith and express interest in Cincinnati Bengals offensive coordinator Hue Jackson in search for replacement for Tom Coughlin, who in turn meets with Philadelphia Eagles; San Francisco 49ers have also requested to speak with Coughlin; other football news noted.
San Antonio Spurs defeat Brooklyn Nets, 106-79.
New York Yankees Manager Joe Girardi says Aroldis Chapman will enter spring training as team's closer over Andrew Miller.
Alabama defeats Clemson, 45-40, to win College Football Playoff National Championship and fourth national title in seven years.
Several Atlanta Hawks teammates pass time traveling to games by playing modified version of card game Uno.
Upcoming report by commission appointed by World Anti-Doping Agency is expected to detail widespread corruption among top international track and field officials; previous installment of report focused on Russia and resulted in its suspension from international competition.
NBA Roundup; Cleveland Cavaliers beat Dallas Mavericks, 110-107; other pro basketball scores noted.
NFL Roundup; Seattle Seahawks running back Marshawn Lynch, who has missed past eight games because of abdominal injury, takes field for practice, but coach Pete Carroll gives no indication whether he will play in upcoming playoff game against Carolina Panthers; other football news noted.
Christopher Clarey On Tennis column shares list of things he would like to see in sport for 2016 as new season approaches.
Monmouth University basketball guard Justin Robinson, listed at just 5 feet 8 inches, has played major role in team's success, averaging 20.1 points a game, including those against major-conference teams.
NFL Roundup; San Francisco 49ers hire former Philadelphia coach Chip Kelly to replace fired head coach Jim Tomsula; other football news noted.
Bill Pennington On Pro Football column holds New York Giants coach Ben McAdoo, who served as team's offensive coordinator for past two years, has respect for former coach Tom Coughlin's methods, but different philosophy; notes McAdoo spent majority of his career under watchful eye of Green Bay Packers coach Mike McCarthy. 
Juliet Macur Sports of The Times column supports suggestion from Richard W Pound, former chief of World Anti-Doping Agency, that International Assn of Athletics Federations president Sebastian Coe is right man to clean up doping in world of track and field; suggests, however, that Coe first allow independent reform committee to take over IAAF and rebuild its governance structure before he returns to run federation like public company. 
One of greatest hoaxes in sports history, in which Wall Street broker Morris Newburger played key role, recounted; in 1941 Newburger, known for his passion for both sports and pranks, duped number of major newspapers, including New York Times, into reporting entire season of scores for completely fictitious college football team. 
Joe Nocera Sports Business column asserts that football fans in St Louis should not mourn departure of Rams to Los Angeles; says Missouri's proposal to build new stadium for St Louis Rams would have been financially ruinous, and notes there is still existing debt on existing Edward Jones Dome.
Triple Crown winner and 2015 Horse of the Year American Pharoah has breathed new life into horse racing, which is trying to sustain momentum.
Leonid Zhabotinsky, Ukrainian-born weight lifter who won Olympic gold medals in 1964 and 1968 and inspired a young Arnold Schwarzenegger, dies at age 77.
Denver Broncos cornerback Chris Harris Jr has yielded fewest yards per cover snap in slot during past two seasons, impressive statistic for one of most demanding positions on defense.
William C Rhoden Sports of The Times column remembers Altee Tenpenny, rising football star who was killed in car crash in October 2015; holds Tenpenny's story, that of promising high school player who is dwarfed by brighter stars in college and then struggles to flourish, is one many young aspiring football players can relate to.
New York Rangers defeat Philadelphia Flyers, 3-2, in shootout; Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist becomes first goalie in NHL history to have won 20 games in each of his first 11 seasons. 
NHL Roundup; New Jersey Devils defeat Arizona Coyotes, 2-0; other hockey scores noted.
Brandt Snedeker and Zac Blair share third-round lead at Sony Open golf tournament.
Carolina Panthers defeat Seattle Seahawks, 31-24, advancing to NFC title game.
William C Rhoden Sports of The Times column remarks on New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick's singular focus on winning as team heads to AFC championship game for fifth consecutive year.
Denver Broncos beat Pittsburgh Steelers, 23-16, advancing to AFC championship game.
Brothers Bob and Mike Bryan, now No 2 in tennis doubles ranking, have made changes to their off-season habits, training methods and travel schedule with aim of winning Australian Open and regaining No 1 status.
NHL Roundup; Washington Capitals beat New York Rangers, 5-2; other ice hockey scores noted.
NBA Roundup; San Antonio Spurs beat Dallas Mavericks, 112-83; other pro basketball news noted.
Analysis; top four NFL seeds advance to conference championships for first time since 2004 as New England Patriots face Denver Broncos and Arizona Cardinals take on Carolina Panthers.
New York Knicks defeat Philadelphia 76ers, 119-113, in second overtime.
NBA Roundup; Golden State Warriors defeat Cleveland Cavaliers, 132-98; other basketball news noted.
St Louis Blues beat Pittsburgh Penguins, 5-2; other pro hockey scores noted.
Harvey Araton On Pro Basketball column suggests New York Knicks must be careful not to overuse rookie forward Kristaps Porzingis; warns playing Porzingis too often could lead to injury that would be far more devastating for team than failure to secure postseason berth.
Christopher Clarey On Tennis column examines difficulties of proving tennis match-fixing allegations made in report published by BBC and BuzzFeed; underscores degree to which Tennis Integrity Unit, sport's internal watchdog, has operated in dark.
Milwaukee Bucks beat Miami Heat, 91-79; other pro basketball scores noted.
Keeping Score column notes NBA introduced three-point line in 1979-80 season and it has been increasingly important part of game ever since.
Cleveland Cavaliers defeat Brooklyn Nets, 91-78.
St Louis Blues defeat Detroit Red Wings, 2-1; other NHL news noted.
Harvey Araton On Pro Basketball column argues intense public scrutiny endured by Cleveland Cavaliers forward LeBron James is partly of his own making; suggests if James had never left Cleveland for Miami Heat, drama over his ability to win championship for Cavaliers would have passed. 
Former tennis player Justin Gimelstob keeps busy at Australian Open as coach to John Isner and manager to Lindsay Davenport while also serving on ATP Tour board of directors, producing tour's magazine show and commentating on Tennis Channel.
Florida state attorney's office will not pursue criminal charges against New York Yankees pitcher Aroldis Chapman but Major League Baseball is still investigating domestic abuse accusations made by his girlfriend and could hand down penalty that could include suspension.
NFL Roundup; Buffalo Bills break NFL gender barrier by hiring Kathryn Smith as special teams quality control coach; other football news noted.
Los Angeles Lakers forward Kobe Bryant leads voting in what will be his final NBA All-Star Game; other All-Stars and basketball news noted.
Auto Firm customizing garage in Doral, Fla, is go-to business for many Major League Baseball players looking to upgrade and personalize their luxury cars; one of Vega's fastest-selling vehicles is custom Mercedes limousine van that features bar, two reclining chairs, wraparound leather couch, two big-screen televisions and home theater system.
Tennis veteran Maria Sharapova will be joined in third round of Australian Open by four young fellow Russians, Margarita Gasparyan, Daria Kasatkina and Elizaveta Kulichkova. 
NBA Roundup; Golden State Warriors coach Steve Kerr, who underwent two back operations, delaying his return to court, makes long-awaited season debut in team's 112-120 victory over Indiana Pacers; other basketball scores noted. 
Cleveland Cavaliers fire head coach David Blatt in organizational reshuffling that began before All-Star break.